Kevin Kaspar: Hey, guys, we're gonna get started. We have your attention.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay? Great. So we're super excited today kicks off
Kevin Kaspar: the mid program. We have a slew of really amazing speakers that are going to be here in person this week, 1st of which is Eric. So we're really excited to have Eric. Eric went through the program with Troy in 2013, and then join our one of our 2022 startups that went through Neil and my program.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, yeah, he was an Eir during that program, just like David, Don and Daniel in this program. Imagine that. And then imagine one of them becoming Co. CEO with one of your companies. That's what happened
Kevin Kaspar: with Eric. And then Andrew was the current CEO, that went through the program. And now they run, bloom filtered together, and it's doing amazingly well. It's 1 of our top performers in meals portfolio of who we've invested in since 2020. So amazing company. You'll hear more about it. But you'll also hear about Eric's 1st company from 2013, maybe a little more in the founder story than now. Right now. This is
Kevin Kaspar: so he's incredibly busy. He's like raising and out here to do investor meetings. But he takes the time to come back every time to talk to the founders after Mentor madness about mental health, because Eric is super passionate about it. He has a blog about it. He has a book that's published that a lot of founders read. And it's because it's so important in this journey. And I'm sure you guys are feeling it right now. So they had mentor madness finished 2 weeks ago last week was Sf, tech week. So they are like.
Kevin Kaspar: completely probably exhausted. This is the perfect time to talk about this. I just want you guys to know how much like how important this is that it's taking the time out of its busy schedule, because that's what it means for the founders and hexars to
Kevin Kaspar: hear this talk about mental health so super super important. I'm recording it for you guys to give to your co-founders who might not be here, or any part-time founders, because it's that important. So I encourage you to have them watch it, too. Did you want to see anything else about it. Yeah, you'll learn more about his story this afternoon. But this one's all about you guys and the journey you're going through and how we can help some tips hopefully. Okay, cool.
Kevin Kaspar: I can't decide. I'm gonna sit or stand. We'll see. We'll see as we go here.
Kevin Kaspar: so thank you guys so much. I can't tell you how much I appreciate you guys taking time. Yes, I'm very busy. Blah, blah! Blah, we talk about all we want. I know how busy you guys are. I've done it from all ends right. I've been a founder going through your program. I've been an investor
Kevin Kaspar: observing companies that go through. I've been an eir trying to support folks who have gone through. So I get where you guys are.
Kevin Kaspar: Neil. This is like probably 10 or 15 times. You've now invited me to give this presentation, and I can't tell you how much I appreciate it. So thank you always. It's fun to be out here in San Francisco. I've never done one of these in person not in Chicago. So this is kind of neat. It's sort of a milestone for me. And thank you guys
Kevin Kaspar: we're gonna talk about entrepreneurial mental resilience today.
Kevin Kaspar: So I'll give you kind of a quick overview of me. Alright. So I have been an entrepreneur in some way, shape or form, for probably 25 years.
Kevin Kaspar: I have had some really nice outcomes, and I've been very fortunate we've had. I've had some good luck. So when I was in college, I helped co-found a company called Eye Contact, we basically helped invent the world of email marketing. So when you guys look at all the spam in your inbox, you can thank me for all of that. You're welcome. That was in like 2,002,
Kevin Kaspar: and I probably helped co-found 10 different companies in college. 9 of them were failures or learning experiences, and one of them ended up being 189 million dollar exit, which was really quite nice.
Kevin Kaspar: I helped run a company called Spring Cm. I was the chief strategy officer when we sold that to a company that's mostly out here in San Francisco and in Seattle. Called docusign right before the pandemic. So that was sort of a fun run in in a lot of ways.
Kevin Kaspar: And then I was running strategy for a company called Connexium, which we sold to Warburg, Pincus
Kevin Kaspar: in October of 2024.
Kevin Kaspar: No, this is 2024, October 2022, right before I I was in Eir and Neil's program.
Kevin Kaspar: So if your key takeaway from all of this is, it's better to be lucky than good. You're exactly right. We ended up. I end up, being very fortunate and hitting kind of some milestones around some exits
Kevin Kaspar: right when the markets were frothy and nice, and we got like
Kevin Kaspar: 40 times revenue multiples and boy like, wasn't that fun?
Kevin Kaspar: I've also had the good fortune of climbing Mount Everest and ended up doing that the 1st time I went, and if anybody's a baseball fan, I'm a big Chicago Cubs fan. I took a W flag, which is the big sign for the Chicago Cubs up to the top of Mount Everest. I just happened to have been the 1st person to have ever taken a W. Flag to the top of Mount Everest, which the Cubs thought was really cool, and so I landed back in Chicago and went from O'hare straight to Wrigley Field
Kevin Kaspar: and got to throw out the 1st pitch of a cubs game and put my face up on the jumper. Tron. The pitch was not a strike. I know I'm going to get asked that. So I'm just going to put it out there right now. But you did get the catchers mid call like a 12 6 curve
Kevin Kaspar: right off the plate. But I did. I did at least make it into the catcher today. So I've had some fun. Things happen.
Kevin Kaspar: The thing that I will also tell all of you is, you know, I got to find Mount Everest.
Kevin Kaspar: I saw dead bodies. Yes.
Kevin Kaspar: I can talk all about pooping on Mount Everest. That's always a question that I always end up getting around the bathroom on there.
Kevin Kaspar: There were some times where I felt
Kevin Kaspar: like I wasn't sure how it's gonna make it up or down that mountain.
Kevin Kaspar: It was an incredibly challenging, incredibly difficult experience. I'm happy to talk about as much mountaineering as anybody wants to talk about
Kevin Kaspar: the thing that I will tell you, and this is
Kevin Kaspar: complete truth. It's not marketing bullshit
Kevin Kaspar: climbing. Mount Everest was the second hardest thing I've ever done, and it was the second closest
Kevin Kaspar: that I have personally ever felt about.
Kevin Kaspar: The 1st was when I was an entrepreneur
Kevin Kaspar: and running a business called Simple relevance took it through techstars 2013.
Kevin Kaspar: Was one of 2 companies in that class which was like the toast of that class.
Kevin Kaspar: At the time. I know Neil no longer does this. At the time the coveted spot of Demo Day was you either wanted to be the 1st one to lead off, or you wanted to be the anchor at the end.
Kevin Kaspar: And so that was my goal. When I went into techstars 2013, I was gonna win tech starts. I was gonna be in that anchor slot. I ended up being in that anchor slot. I won tech starts for whatever the fuck that's worth.
Kevin Kaspar: And the company that let off is a little company called Trading View, that probably nobody's ever heard of. It just happens to be worth like a few 1 billion dollars today. So they did quite well.
Kevin Kaspar: I was not quite so fortunate. I won techstars and ended up losing the entrepreneurial race
Kevin Kaspar: in many ways. And we're gonna talk about that. We're gonna talk about the lesson, the lessons, the toll, what that took on me and some of my suggestions for you guys around.
Kevin Kaspar: First, st I'm gonna zoom out for a little bit and give you guys a little bit of context. I mean, I'm in San Francisco, right? You guys are all San Francisco. This is the Mecca of entrepreneurship.
Kevin Kaspar: This is an awesome place to build startups and build companies. I think it's cool to give this presentation out here in a lot of ways.
Kevin Kaspar: What I will also tell you is that the research that comes out of the University of California, San Francisco by my good friend Dr. Michael Freeman, shows entrepreneurship as a profession in crisis.
Kevin Kaspar: All right, 75% of venture backed startups fail.
Kevin Kaspar: Most of you that go through techstars more than 3 quarters of you.
Kevin Kaspar: If this statistic sold will not return capital to your shareholders.
Kevin Kaspar: Vcs. In general, in the aggregate underperform, the S. And P. 500, particularly on a risk adjusted basis.
Kevin Kaspar: And and this is Dr. Michael Freeman's work.
Kevin Kaspar: you know. Forget the financial returns for a minute. I could just tell you right now. Entrepreneurs and the research shows have 3 times the rate of addiction and twice the rate of suicidality of the general population.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright.
Kevin Kaspar: we're talking about why this is, and and how I think we can ultimately improve it. But systemically.
Kevin Kaspar: this is a crazy profession for us to be in.
Kevin Kaspar: I say, this is someone that's basically tried to do everything else in the world and decided. The only thing that I want to do is be an entrepreneur
Kevin Kaspar: But I think it's incredibly important that we understand the risks, the challenges around it, and that we prepare ourselves for what we're going.
Kevin Kaspar: This is Neil's favorite slide entrepreneurial psychology.
Kevin Kaspar: So
Kevin Kaspar: is, is anybody is, is it? You guys know what the learning curve is right? You guys have all seen the learning curve right? So the learning curve is this idea that over time we start from not knowing something, and as we practice it more and more, we get better and better at it.
Kevin Kaspar: Does anybody here ever study psychology? Do you have any psychology majors?
Kevin Kaspar: You've probably seen this study before? Right? What it basically shows is that when we start trying to do something.
Kevin Kaspar: that thing seems like it's going to be really, really easy.
Kevin Kaspar: And then, as we get into it. What we start to learn is that actually, it's harder than we thought it was going.
Kevin Kaspar: And so what ends up happening oftentimes right around this time that you've gotten into techstars. You're like the top one or top 10% of all the founders. I don't know what your acceptance rates are anymore. But like it's really small, there's probably hundreds, at least, maybe thousands, of entrepreneurs that would love to be sitting in the seats that all of you are sitting in right. I don't know about you guys, but when I got that techstars acceptance letter I felt pretty good about myself.
Kevin Kaspar: I was pretty stoked about it like I clearly was better than all of those other founders. Now it took me 3 trials, so you guys might be a little bit better than I am. But, like on my 3rd try, I finally got into tech stars.
Kevin Kaspar: and I was finally able to like, sit in the seats like you guys are sitting right
Kevin Kaspar: and boy from there. It was so obvious to me I had the financial models built and everything built. It was so obvious to me how my company was going to be nothing but up into the right. I'm drawing a linear curve. But really, if you looked at my models, it was going to be this nice hockey sticker. We're going to figure everything out. And, boy, was it going to be awesome?
Kevin Kaspar: I didn't know if I was going to be a millionaire or billionaire in like the next 5 years or so. I wasn't sure if I was gonna sell to like, you know, Ibm, or if I was gonna go public like. There were a lot of options on the table. But, boy, was it going to be cool
Kevin Kaspar: right?
Kevin Kaspar: And, like all of this, like some of it, I stated explicitly. A lot of it was like implicitly in here.
Kevin Kaspar: Got to the end of techstars, and I was like, why would I raise more money
Kevin Kaspar: like I was in the anchor spot of techstars? I was winning. Everybody loved me. We did this presentation at the House of Blues in Chicago. I had the guy that would be the Governor, Jb. Pritzker there, who was telling me how awesome he thought I was. I had, like all these investors that flew in from all over the country.
Kevin Kaspar: and they were all like lining up to come. Tell me how great I was, and how cool I was, and what a great founder I was. And I was like, Yeah, I know obviously
Kevin Kaspar: what you did ask to give us right.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm living up here in the peak of Mount Stupid
Kevin Kaspar: alright. And the next like 3 years of my life
Kevin Kaspar: was basically getting punched
Kevin Kaspar: in the face the gut, and, like every other place that you could possibly imagine, as I descended down into this valley of despair.
Kevin Kaspar: right! And and what Dunning Kruger
Kevin Kaspar: teaches us
Kevin Kaspar: is, by the way, that's not unique to me. That happens to a lot of us where the problems seem real easy at the beginning we discount other people's advice.
Kevin Kaspar: We probably talk more than we should listen while we're up there.
Kevin Kaspar: We think that we know it all, and we think that everybody that doesn't understand the vision that we see
Kevin Kaspar: is either stupid. They don't get it. They don't have the vision that we do. They're biased against us for some reason, like they don't like us because of the color of our skin or gender, or like they just don't understand us. They underestimate us as founders right, which there may be truth to some of those different stories that we tell ourselves.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, we're living up here in Mount Steuben.
Kevin Kaspar: And we could talk a little bit more about that. If we want. You guys have just been, you know, through mentor madness. And and you guys probably have investors that are all excited. You're in techstar, San Francisco and all this other kind of stuff.
Kevin Kaspar: But what we're really gonna focus on a lot is, how do we psychologically steel ourselves
Kevin Kaspar: for what's coming.
Kevin Kaspar: and how do we become very resilient to the rest of this part of the journey?
Kevin Kaspar: By the way, I forgot to say this upfront. But if you guys have questions, if you have stuff you want to say, feel free to raise your hand, there's always a little bit more fun as dialogue rather than monologue. I love the fact that I'm here in person, Neil. I know you've seen this talk like a hundred times. So if there's points that I'm missing that you want me to make in this version of it, you know. Just yell at me. I know you will.
Kevin Kaspar: You see this among your fellow founders during the program as well?
Kevin Kaspar: Did I see it? Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: absolutely. I mean.
Kevin Kaspar: I see this like, I I maybe have a little bit less recollection
Kevin Kaspar: of where it existed amongst my other founders in 2013.
Kevin Kaspar: I will tell you as an investor now.
Kevin Kaspar: and as in EIR.
Kevin Kaspar: You know, when I went through that program and everything else
Kevin Kaspar: I mean.
Kevin Kaspar: like, this is just laughable in terms of like, how often I see it right?
Kevin Kaspar: and and the hard part is.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, like you've got to have a little bit of that.
Kevin Kaspar: If the problems that we were solving were obvious, and they'd already be solved.
Kevin Kaspar: and many of us are underestimated. And so, like, you gotta have a little bit of like that chip on your shoulder.
Kevin Kaspar: You know, there's a lot of research about entrepreneurs being neurodivergent in a variety of different ways. Some of those things that I showed you about addiction and suicidality and other things. It's hard to understand which way the causal arrow goes
Kevin Kaspar: in terms of, like, you know that Dr. Freeman,
Kevin Kaspar: you know, basically wrote this paper and said, like our entrepreneurs touched by fire, he basically pauses like, Do you have to be crazy to be an entrepreneur? Do you have to be a little different. You have to be a little nuts.
Kevin Kaspar: but many of us probably feel that way sometimes in the world. I know I do.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh.
Kevin Kaspar: so to some extent you've got to have a little bit of that. But there's a difference between having
Kevin Kaspar: a conviction in your belief in like some core thesis.
Kevin Kaspar: And having this almost manic belief
Kevin Kaspar: that you're right and everybody else is wrong
Kevin Kaspar: and and and trying to
Kevin Kaspar: trying to like square that circle is really really hard.
Kevin Kaspar: But yeah, I mean, I I see it absolutely all the time
Kevin Kaspar: I see it a ton in myself. So like I have to constantly be trying to calibrate where like, I think that what I'm hearing is wrong
Kevin Kaspar: is that because I'm wrong, and everybody else is giving me insights that I really ought to shut up, listen to and pay attention to?
Kevin Kaspar: Or is it because other people are stuck in some innovators? Dilemma trap?
Kevin Kaspar: But like they're not quite seeing the angle that I'm seeing, and I need to go execute on that. And it's it's tough to calibrate. It's it's tough to self regulate.
Kevin Kaspar: and it's tough to have the emotional understanding even able to know where you are on the spurt. It was real nice and easy when you put it up here is like a nice slope. It's it's really really hard to actually figure out where you are in the journey.
Kevin Kaspar: Eric. I think the 1st impression. When this slide comes up for some people I don't wanna make too many assumptions, but it's like, Oh, this is 3 months or 6 months, and then I'll be through 10. Really, it's 5, 10 years.
Kevin Kaspar: That's the timetable before you're looking. It is it is
Kevin Kaspar: you know, this is
Kevin Kaspar: almost never do. A creative exits happen
Kevin Kaspar: in less than 7 to 10 years.
Kevin Kaspar: And you know one of the interesting things about being an angel investor. Now.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm probably invested in 50 companies individually, and I don't know another.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't know 100
Kevin Kaspar: through like Ecs. And I'm an Lp in. The funny thing about it is like
Kevin Kaspar: when you're when you're in a they call it the J curve.
Kevin Kaspar: When you're investor. You see this a lot more than you do when you're an entrepreneur, which is that, like all the exits that happen in the 1st 3 to 5 years, are the ones where you lose money. So, being an angel investor is fast, because you basically write a whole bunch of checks. And then you see, a bunch of companies lose money shit. Why have I done this. And then eventually, like
Kevin Kaspar: 8 years later, some company you've written off and thought was going to be a 0. It's just been like grinding along like
Kevin Kaspar: through this.
Kevin Kaspar: Eventually they like figure something out, and then in like year 9
Kevin Kaspar: like like it blows off, and they end up getting this great it
Kevin Kaspar: oh, shit never saw that happening.
Kevin Kaspar: The other thing that I haven't quite figured out in the bottle yet. But it's definitely there is. This is also not like totally totally linear. There's like this like longer version of this that goes over like 10 years. And then there's the like. There's like micro versions of this that happen all the way up this curve.
Kevin Kaspar: which is like
Kevin Kaspar: you get done with techstars.
Kevin Kaspar: and then, like you're stuck in this valley of despair until you finally figure out how to like, get to the traction. You need to get that a round.
Kevin Kaspar: And then all of a sudden, you like feel like you're great again, and you're like, Oh, man, I got it all figured out right. So you gave me a term sheet, or whatever, and then you like. Take that money, and then you get punched in the face a whole bunch more times, and you kind of go back.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, in your experience. What is the best single way to accelerate the process in this curve, or, in other words, what is the best way to figure out that you're stupid?
Kevin Kaspar: Almost.
Kevin Kaspar: We'll we'll get into a bunch of that
Kevin Kaspar: in in terms of solutions. I'm I'm gonna spend a lot of time sort of grinding through the problem statement, and then we'll get into the solutions kind of towards the end.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, yeah. So the question was like, like, How do you go through this curve? Faster, right? And and
Kevin Kaspar: more than anything, I think it's awareness
Kevin Kaspar: and and recognition, and like personal calibration
Kevin Kaspar: around it. It's it's like
Kevin Kaspar: for me, like like again, I go back to
Kevin Kaspar: like like just trying to figure out, where am I? Where am I mapping myself
Kevin Kaspar: on this cycle? If I'm feeling the way I'm feeling. If I'm feeling fucking great if I got that manic energy that I get as an entrepreneur right? Am I getting that manic energy because I am
Kevin Kaspar: thoughtfully processing the data points.
Kevin Kaspar: And I'm I have an intellectually verifiable
Kevin Kaspar: view of the world.
Kevin Kaspar: Or am I getting that manic and like, am I going to feel that way in 72 h, when whatever like sugar rush of mania kind of wears off?
Kevin Kaspar: Or am I feeling that way? Because, like, like, I'm living up here in the land of Mount Stupid right the same way.
Kevin Kaspar: when I'm sitting here going like, why am I even building this business
Kevin Kaspar: like? Why am I in the role that I'm in when I'm having these thoughts, that that Elon, I think, did just an absolutely incredible job of framing up. This was in 2018,
Kevin Kaspar: and he said, this past year has been the most difficult and painful of my career was excruciating. I've had friends come by who are really concerned. It's often a choice of no sleep or ambient. If you have anyone who can do a better job, please let me know they can have the job.
Kevin Kaspar: Is there someone who can do the job better? They can have the reins right now? So like, I felt every one of those feelings.
Kevin Kaspar: and I have felt it.
Kevin Kaspar: We're gonna talk a lot about this when I'm living down here in this valley of despair right
Kevin Kaspar: now, just just from a data perspective
Kevin Kaspar: when he unve this
Kevin Kaspar: talk
Kevin Kaspar: or when he said this to the New York Times, I think this is important. This wasn't Elon Musk private monologue right. This is what Elon Musk told a reporter to the New York Times paper of record for this country
Kevin Kaspar: in 2018
Kevin Kaspar: Tesla was 2370 a share. Does anybody know what Tesla is trading at right now?
Kevin Kaspar: How much is Tesla? What's Tesla's rough
Kevin Kaspar: split twice? And what's it at right now?
Kevin Kaspar: 6,000. It's about 220 bucks a share. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: and it's split a couple times.
Kevin Kaspar: So call that 800 bucks a shit roughly 40 times
Kevin Kaspar: the amount of value that he's created. All right. So he's living down here in the Valley of Despair. He doesn't want to do the job. You don't think he's good at it. He can't go to sleep. His friends and family are concerned, all of that kind of stuff not say that some of that might not still be the case with you, almost
Kevin Kaspar: boil.
Kevin Kaspar: You cannot deny that he's created an incredible amount of value for for his shareholders, since that point in time. Alright. So what I'm always trying to do going back to your question is, I'm trying to calibrate. Where am I? And what's actually happening?
Kevin Kaspar: I think we have one other question. I was just gonna say, as well, it can be easy to dilute yourself because you might be further along that path on different areas. Right? Like I found I've done that you realize
Kevin Kaspar: something else that's really crucial to think about it.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, self awareness is the hardest part of the whole thing. Multiple dummy replicas. Right? That's exactly right. That's exactly right.
Kevin Kaspar: All right. So we talked a little bit about the psychology. Dunning-kruger.
Kevin Kaspar: Let's talk a little bit about the physiology
Kevin Kaspar: being an entrepreneur somatically. What happens in our bots?
Kevin Kaspar: Alright
Kevin Kaspar: you, you said you did some psychology.
Kevin Kaspar: What do you think is going through
Kevin Kaspar: this gentleman's body and endocrine system like what's happening in his body as he faces off against this man.
Kevin Kaspar: So he chose to fight. So he's got a fight or flight. Reaction.
Kevin Kaspar: Vision 0. All is focused on is the bear.
Kevin Kaspar: and we'll just stopping through.
Kevin Kaspar: Blood is pumping his heart. Rate's up.
Kevin Kaspar: Cortisol is be is probably being dumped into a system. Do you agree with that? Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: Any other reactions we think are happening right now. Anybody else?
Kevin Kaspar: I mean, I'm biased because I know the show. But like, yeah, I don't even know what show. What show is Vikings. This is the son of the Viking King, and he's on a Sabbatical right now to prove his. No one has ever pointed that out. You know. It's funny because I've watched the whole Viking series. I even realize that it was actually, I forgot the scene.
Kevin Kaspar: Any other physical, any other physical reactions that we think are happening
Kevin Kaspar: something. He's what something
Kevin Kaspar: be shouting, yeah. Oh, yeah, definitely.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, yeah, exactly. He's loud. He's trying to intimidate. He's trying to scare right? The body position right? It's like, open up body position. His muscles are tense, right? He doesn't feel pain, probably because
Kevin Kaspar: it's exactly right. It's exactly right.
Kevin Kaspar: So
Kevin Kaspar: if you think about the evolution of the human animal right?
Kevin Kaspar: It's pretty rare. None of us have probably ever had to fight a bear in real life, I would generally probably say, but like for ancestors. These sorts of of interactions happened right? We had to fight for our physical security
Kevin Kaspar: as a way to survive, reproduce, and pass on our genes
Kevin Kaspar: somewhere in the potential lineage of our ancestors
Kevin Kaspar: were people that when they saw this bear they probably didn't have all those reactions. They probably like calmly walked up to the bear and the bear right. We all heard about the guy in Alaska into the wild. It was like living amongst the bears. What happens to those people
Kevin Kaspar: spoiler, alert.
Kevin Kaspar: anybody know
Kevin Kaspar: they get eaten by the fucking bear right. Their chances of surviving and passing on their genes are mathematically far lower than the guy who has the fight or flight response has all these physiological adaptations that allow him to maximize his odds of survival
Kevin Kaspar: in a situation that is high stress of high acute stress.
Kevin Kaspar: right?
Kevin Kaspar: The reality of this
Kevin Kaspar: is that all of us are the product
Kevin Kaspar: of our most paranoid.
Kevin Kaspar: our most anxious
Kevin Kaspar: ancestors.
Kevin Kaspar: whose bodies evolve these physiological responses to danger and stress.
Kevin Kaspar: There's a reason why our bodies have evolved to adapt to stress the way they have. Now, this is an acute stressor.
Kevin Kaspar: When we think about physiology, when we think about the reactions that that person's going through
Kevin Kaspar: exactly right cortisol adrenaline, that guy couldn't go to sleep in that moment if he tried.
Kevin Kaspar: By the way, it shuts off the digestive system
Kevin Kaspar: creates a whole lot of other things. The the reality of the situation, though for us.
Kevin Kaspar: as we go through the stresses of entrepreneurship
Kevin Kaspar: is in many ways our body is basically reacting like we are just constantly being fought fighting this family
Kevin Kaspar: all right. Our bodies.
Kevin Kaspar: stressed reactions have evolved to a certain set of circumstances. They are not well involved. To how do I get a seed investor or a series, a investor, to take me seriously.
Kevin Kaspar: But that risk of death of our company.
Kevin Kaspar: the stresses that you guys are going through as you get ready for demo Day, as you get ready to fundraise. After that, as you try to close your 1st customers as you go through all of these milestones. Your body's responding in much the same way.
Kevin Kaspar: Problem is that when we live in that world
Kevin Kaspar: for a period of months or years, that chronic stress
Kevin Kaspar: creates a very different environment for our body.
Kevin Kaspar: And so what ends up happening is we lose the ability to sleep, which for most of us is very important for good information, processing and good decision.
Kevin Kaspar: Many of us develop anxiety as we go through this chronic stressor.
Kevin Kaspar: My 1st time through, I developed an eye twitch
Kevin Kaspar: that I didn't even realize I had. There's a couple of people there's always I almost named the book Itwitch. To be honest with you. There's always people that they're sort of laughing and falling along. Yeah, I got that. I thought it was the coffee.
Kevin Kaspar: Excuse me, I still feel it sometimes like when I feel it start to pick up and I go. Oh.
Kevin Kaspar: there's that! Alright! I may not even realize I'm under stress. My body actually tells me when my left eye starts twitching, and I recognize, like, oh, man, I've got more going on in my body than I even realize.
Kevin Kaspar: What do you do when you realize that? Are you like scaling back? Do you make sure you take a break, or we'll get into it? We'll get into the solutions here in a second. But yeah, I mean many of those things. My scary thing is that my watch tells me I thought I was sitting in a meeting mode right?
Kevin Kaspar: These things ultimately end up turning into unfortunately, things like eating disorders for many of us.
Kevin Kaspar: Mental breakouts.
Kevin Kaspar: So to your point like. I remember sitting on the couch very vividly one time, and my heart rate was running like I was. I was in the middle of climbing a mountain
Kevin Kaspar: and it was just because I was sitting there worried about my company and and just sitting there thinking about that. I have a friend, John Roa, who wrote a book about his journey. He was in the process of negotiating a 9 figure exit to Mark Benioff at Salesforce.
Kevin Kaspar: and woke up in the hospital in a huge state, literally did not know his own name in his mid thirties. I've known entrepreneurs in their mid thirties who have had strokes
Kevin Kaspar: who would have heart attacks?
Kevin Kaspar: We can legitimately work our brains, our minds, our bodies.
Kevin Kaspar: to a point where they break if we're not careful, and if we're not thoughtful about it.
Kevin Kaspar: and unfortunately, as I've already mentioned, the rates of suicide in our community are way above the baseline should be
Kevin Kaspar: now the reality of all this is this would be terrible from our our sort of journey, as humans
Kevin Kaspar: makes us less happy, makes us less thoughtful. All this other kind of stuff. There's a real human toll in this.
Kevin Kaspar: But what I really want to get across, because
Kevin Kaspar: if you take me back to 2013 and you have Eric of 2013 sitting in that chair. I'd be sitting there going. Yeah, yeah, okay. I get it.
Kevin Kaspar: Whatever. I'll talk my way through a whole bunch of that shit. What I want to know is, how do I go make this company successful? How do I go
Kevin Kaspar: right? I was a lot worried about my personal human happiness than I was. How do I be successful as an operator and achieve the mission that I've set out for myself?
Kevin Kaspar: And what I really want to get across what is so incredibly important. The reason that I talk about this in the context of mental resilience rather than mental health
Kevin Kaspar: is. I focus a little bit less about how do we be healthy and happy? By the way, I think that stuff's really important. But I focus a little bit less on that than I do. How do we be resilient in terms of effective operators as we try to go against those odds that we already said, you know, are laid out in front of us.
Kevin Kaspar: So the other things to recognize is when you're in this state. You're processing less information.
Kevin Kaspar: you are less effective as a leader. You have a lower Eq. You have a demonstrably lower IQ. If we give this gentleman an IQ test
Kevin Kaspar: like the moment that bear went away. If we sat down and gave him an it test, he would be way less capable of answering intellectual questions because of the State that his body's in
Kevin Kaspar: it also lowers our ethical standards.
Kevin Kaspar: We end up unfortunately making decisions. Oftentimes the legal decisions that we wouldn't make if we were in other states, because, or or at least influenced by the physical state that our bodies. And as we're going through this process.
Kevin Kaspar: I think a lot about?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: I mean, or or changing cells and excel sheets
Kevin Kaspar: that you know, might look great to an investor, even if they're not quite true.
Kevin Kaspar: Right and
Kevin Kaspar: you know Neil and I both know entrepreneurs that have ended up in jail after giving into some of those temptations.
Kevin Kaspar: So here's the thing about it. Right?
Kevin Kaspar: you guys are out here in the middle of San Francisco.
Kevin Kaspar: You guys have more entrepreneurial mentors. I mean, you guys have better access to entrepreneurs than anybody in the world.
Kevin Kaspar: the interesting thing about it, you guys are tech stars, etc, etc. The interesting thing about the research
Kevin Kaspar: is that most of the advice
Kevin Kaspar: that we are giving as entrepreneurs
Kevin Kaspar: actually makes us less likely to survive
Kevin Kaspar: in terms of our company surviving and continuing
Kevin Kaspar: basically, most of the advice that we get is really bad advice. All right. There's a 13 billion dollar industry of people out there that are selling books, speaking at conferences, doing all that other kind of stuff that doesn't include academia, and it doesn't include the venture capital industry.
Kevin Kaspar: But what the research has shown is that the more money that you spend
Kevin Kaspar: on books and conferences, and all this other kind of stuff, the less likely
Kevin Kaspar: it is that your company will survive year by you.
Kevin Kaspar: You guys understand this
Kevin Kaspar: because your head is being filled with bad advice. All right. That is my personal hypothesis
Kevin Kaspar: from having lived in this community for 25 years and watched it and analyzed it and everything else.
Kevin Kaspar: Could you say that again? Yes.
Kevin Kaspar: this is an incredibly important point.
Kevin Kaspar: the research shows. And I can send you guys, you guys can buy the book. I'll send it to you for free anybody emails. Oh, if anybody emails me, I'm happy to send you a manuscript for free. I'm not here to sell books. I'm part of this industry, whether I want to be or not.
Kevin Kaspar: The more money that you spend consuming entrepreneurial advice.
Kevin Kaspar: The more books you buy, the more these conferences you go to, probably the more shark tank that you watch.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: the less likely, if you regress
Kevin Kaspar: the amount of money that an entrepreneur spends in the entrepreneurial advice. Industry versus the longevity of that entrepreneur's business, you find an inverse relationship. The more money you spend on entrepreneurial advice, the less survivable your company is year to year.
Kevin Kaspar: Does that make sense? It may not make sense. I'll explain why I think it is. But but it's the relationship. Am I at least speaking clearly about the inverse relationship that academics have found when they study this world
Kevin Kaspar: from like start to finish, or if there's like a healthy small amount.
Kevin Kaspar: don't know it's it's a good question. I don't know the answer to that.
Kevin Kaspar: And doesn't this like have something to do with the entrepreneurs? Agreeableness level as well because normally an entrepreneur's success can be directly attributed to how less agreeable they are in certain scenarios and situations, and if you're less agreeable, it means that you would be less likely to, you know, consume advice. Right? So might there be a different relationship with this, or
Kevin Kaspar: there may be. I I don't know. That's another good question. I I don't have. I don't there? There may be confounding variables. That could ultimately end up impacting. So I think it's a fair point
Kevin Kaspar: I am going to go through. Why, I believe
Kevin Kaspar: this relationship exists.
Kevin Kaspar: So the 1st thing to understand is you talked about the power law dynamics. Right? You're probably ahead of me on this thought.
Kevin Kaspar: Most of the advice that you're getting
Kevin Kaspar: much of it comes from venture capitalists right? Venture capitalists love to come to places like this and tell you how smart they are, and give you a whole bunch of advice about how to run your business right?
Kevin Kaspar: Does anybody here know anything about horse racing? At least read a few articles in the news about it. Anybody I did not see Seabiscuit.
Kevin Kaspar: Do you guys know what? What do unscrupulous owners do in order to make
Kevin Kaspar: a horse run faster.
Kevin Kaspar: The match fix.
Kevin Kaspar: I mean horse racing, at least in my country, is very rigged in the sense that you would be, you know you would own multiple horses in the same race, and then you would have horses equip. You know better or worse riders than you would likely have to, and then you would bet on the one that has the better rider.
Kevin Kaspar: It's a little bit of that right
Kevin Kaspar: sorry
Kevin Kaspar: Doping, who said that. There we go. That's what I was looking for. What does that mean?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, they have.
Kevin Kaspar: It's exactly right. And so what what 2 impacts does that have on the horse. Does it make it more likely that the horse is going to win the race?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, it does right? Helps them build muscle. Does anybody know the other impact that doping has on the horse.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm sorry what decreases their lifespan, or just like, yeah, yeah. It also makes it more likely that they're going to break their leg.
Kevin Kaspar: Everybody know what happens to a horse that breaks his leg on the track
Kevin Kaspar: killers. Right?
Kevin Kaspar: So why
Kevin Kaspar: does the Vc. Don't
Kevin Kaspar: each of these horses.
Kevin Kaspar: DC. Sorry. Why does the horse not, Neil? Why do it so? Why, why does the the race owner
Kevin Kaspar: some of the horses, if it makes it more likely that the horse is gonna die.
Kevin Kaspar: You're not first.st You're lost. You're not 1st shots. There's a power law dynamic
Kevin Kaspar: to the prize money
Kevin Kaspar: that comes out of racehorses right? If you've got 10 horses running in a race.
Kevin Kaspar: how much money does the 5th place horse collect
Kevin Kaspar: nothing?
Kevin Kaspar: How much money. Does the 1st place worth going? Mostly right? And there's a little bit for second, a little bit for 3, rd and whatever right? So what? There's a power law, dynamic involved in the returns to ownership.
Kevin Kaspar: and
Kevin Kaspar: you had a portfolio of assets that you were trying to maximize the value of.
Kevin Kaspar: There is a highly rational economic incentive. If you're the owner of all of these assets
Kevin Kaspar: to maximize the chance that that horse comes in first, st
Kevin Kaspar: even if it also dramatically increases the odds
Kevin Kaspar: that any individual ends up in this position
Kevin Kaspar: is the relationship be becoming clear to you guys.
Kevin Kaspar: your Vcs other than Neil, the people who will be theoretically investing in you. Going forward.
Kevin Kaspar: they will tell you that your incentives are alive.
Kevin Kaspar: It will tell you that the advice that they're giving you is because they want you to succeed.
Kevin Kaspar: That is probably somewhat true in their minds.
Kevin Kaspar: but you should always be thinking through
Kevin Kaspar: their incentive is to get you, in the 1st place.
Kevin Kaspar: not to help maximize your odds of a successful exit.
Kevin Kaspar: And, by the way, those 2 things may or may not be correlated.
Kevin Kaspar: you had your hand. Yeah, I wanted to just reinforce the point you just made, because this is the 1st thing I learned when I started in venture in 2,007
Kevin Kaspar: right? It was the 1st thing I learned at the 1st firm. I worked at the way that they talked about the portfolio was kind of like.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, they're almost all gonna fail. But like the few are gonna work. So the advice that we gave across the board was always the advice that led each company to have the moonshot outcome rather than what would seemingly be good nuance advice for each company.
Kevin Kaspar: And that's still true today. So I have founders today that are getting advice, especially from Silicon Valley, that disregards their individual circumstances business and is completely focused on the outcome.
Kevin Kaspar: And again into your other point. It does make logical rational sense. If you're a Vc. And you don't really care about the human being either way.
Kevin Kaspar: then it only makes sense for you to steer every investment you've made to the outcome that keeps you in business successful.
Kevin Kaspar: right? But there's a really really negative like
Kevin Kaspar: side effect of collateral damage. And that's even though
Kevin Kaspar: the outcome that gets you through a 1, 3, 5, 10 billion dollar personal check
Kevin Kaspar: from from an exit
Kevin Kaspar: is an app is an abject failure to a midwestern BC.
Kevin Kaspar: To a Silicon valley. Vc. It's it's a fucking embarrassment, right? Why did you even take?
Kevin Kaspar: And this shit happens in real life. By the way, if you think that this is only in horse racing, it's not
Kevin Kaspar: alright. This is
Kevin Kaspar: an entrepreneur that many of us know very well. Love and respect the hell out of
Kevin Kaspar: I use this with her permission. You can follow her on Instagram or on or on Linkedin, if you wanna if you want to see some of her journey. But she went through the tech starts program in Chicago.
Kevin Kaspar: and I think it was like 6 months later
Kevin Kaspar: that she posted 6 nurses and 2 doctors told me I was lucky to be alive. My blood sugar dropped to 20, and my heart rate to 40. She ended up in a hospital. She's got multiple kids, and she barely survived her brush with this. This was 3 years ago, 2 years ago. This went through 2 years ago. This was last year last year last year, and then she just wrapped up the Gordon Ramsey show.
Kevin Kaspar: So
Kevin Kaspar: when when we say all this, this stuff is not theoretical like this unfortunately happens to people that sit in these rooms and in these chairs. And this is for many of us the journey that's in it.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. I'm in Silicon Valley careful when I'm in. When I'm in Chicago. I always know that, like nobody knows these people. But you know, like
Kevin Kaspar: I wrote a book about it. So I'm just gonna save it.
Kevin Kaspar: I'll I'll give you some other examples of what I think is bad advice in this world. All right. This is Mr. Ben Horowitz
Kevin Kaspar: wearing this shirt that I think is hilarious. No bitch assness. I don't even know what that means. Somebody know what bitch assness means. You do. What does it mean?
Kevin Kaspar: Can't wait to hear, but I don't know. It's not sure how it works. But
Kevin Kaspar: Ben wrote this wrote this thing. Yeah, I do know that. You know. If you read his books it comes through.
Kevin Kaspar: The struggle is not failure, but it causes failure, especially if you were weak always. If you were weak, most people are not strong enough.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. Now, you guys heard 75% of venture backed startups will fail to return capital to investors.
Kevin Kaspar: Right? If, mathematically speaking, I hope all of you succeed, and I hope all of you make millions of dollars.
Kevin Kaspar: But, mathematically speaking, 75% of you will not return capital to your investors.
Kevin Kaspar: Is that because you're weak.
Kevin Kaspar: Is that because you're not strong enough
Kevin Kaspar: for most of us? The answer is, No.
Kevin Kaspar: but what Ben is doing here, and what investors and Vcs. And lots of people love to do is they love to equate success with strength
Kevin Kaspar: and weakness with failure.
Kevin Kaspar: Now we could go play a game where we have 70% odds of failure.
Kevin Kaspar: The fact that we lose that game doesn't make us personally weak.
Kevin Kaspar: It means that sometimes it just doesn't go in our direction. And this is a risk that we should all just be very sanguine that we are taking
Kevin Kaspar: right. But what investors love to do is man. If you're strong. If you're tough.
Kevin Kaspar: if you're hardcore.
Kevin Kaspar: if you're a real man, if you are no bitch assness
Kevin Kaspar: whatever the fuck that means can't wait for Neil to enlighten me. Then you succeed, and you're strong, and you're like real right. And if it doesn't go your way, for whatever reason, then you're weak. You're a pussy, you're bitch assness you're whatever it is, right. And and this framing ends up inextricably tied in our brains.
Kevin Kaspar: so that if you're like me and you're staring down the gauntlet of being one of the 75% of an entrepreneurs
Kevin Kaspar: that doesn't return capital to investors.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, not only do I feel like shit, because I'm not giving people their money back, and I failed at something that I really wanted to do.
Kevin Kaspar: But I also must be weak
Kevin Kaspar: also must be a failure as a human.
Kevin Kaspar: I must be a bitch. Ass. I must be all of these terrible things as a person.
Kevin Kaspar: because I didn't figure it out where Ben Horowitz did right. And and this conflation is just, it's absolutely ridiculous.
Kevin Kaspar: We get Damon, John, this is one of these guys on shark tank. You guys seen Shark Tank right?
Kevin Kaspar: So you know he he loves this whole like rise and grind the tech stars team continues to invite me. Thank you, meal, even though I constantly complain about the do more faster mantra.
Kevin Kaspar: That everybody tells me is out of techstars is no longer a thing, and yet. I see it in the techstars, branding all the time, so I'm just going to keep like calling it out until I don't keep seeing it all the time. And your program was like that, right like, back in 2013, it was like 9 of the 10 of us who went through the program, or at least 8,
Kevin Kaspar: I personally saw, like huddled into a corner, or in tears.
Kevin Kaspar: or like in some form of a breakdown at some point as we went through.
Kevin Kaspar: if if I did not get a task done by the next day.
Kevin Kaspar: all I heard was, Do more faster, like every answer to every question that ever existed was, Do more, faster.
Kevin Kaspar: It was this like mantra that you could use to literally run yourself into them.
Kevin Kaspar: I had the privilege of mentoring years. Way back, we met, I think, probably 13 years ago, like literally founders, were like, just like they broke down, because if you were empathetic enough and they could be vulnerable with you. It happened right, and
Kevin Kaspar: one example that we have which you might remember you. Did you ever have the 10 by 10.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't know. Okay. So on Wednesday nights, I don't know if it was your program on Wednesday nights.
Kevin Kaspar: There would be like a session, basically where everybody would share what's going on and like, how they do, and those 10 by 10 booths, 10
Kevin Kaspar: companies by 10 Pm.
Kevin Kaspar: You know, having that session back then back then, but we switched it to 12 by 12.
Kevin Kaspar: So Friday by noon
Kevin Kaspar: you do the same thing because it's valuable, but we're not expecting you to be here late at night because you should be here around the clock working. So
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, I mean, it was, it was an almost around the clock experience. People. People slept there more than once
Kevin Kaspar: because you just didn't have time to go home and come back.
Kevin Kaspar: And my point of this is not really to say again.
Kevin Kaspar: point all this is not necessarily that like entrepreneurship isn't hard. It doesn't require sacrifice, doesn't require working hard. I do all that kind of stuff. It's just that when you're in that state, you're just a demonstrably less effective operator like there's a reason that we don't let airline pilots work all night and then get up the next morning and go to work again. It's because they're it's not because, like the airlines want their pilots to be lazy. It's because they're less effective at processing information when they're in that mental state.
Kevin Kaspar: So again, this isn't about like being soft, right or being hard. It's not about being tough, being weak or being strong. It's about being in a place where you can process information optimally to make the best decision possible.
Kevin Kaspar: This is another one. You start saying, guys, yeah, I mean, this guy is so. He is so hard, he's so strong, he is so no bitch assness that he's able to say, you may lose your wife. You may lose your dog, your mother may hate you. None of those things matter. What matters is that you achieve success and become free.
Kevin Kaspar: Then you can do whatever you like
Kevin Kaspar: so much of it.
Kevin Kaspar: So he's probably laughing.
Kevin Kaspar: But we all see
Kevin Kaspar: this
Kevin Kaspar: context
Kevin Kaspar: in all of our entrepreneurial need.
Kevin Kaspar: It's everywhere. It's the water that we swim in to use the David Foster waltz quote.
Kevin Kaspar: It's it permeates everything that that we absorb, and it may be a little bit less annoying than Mr. O'leary here, but but I could go through hundreds of other examples.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright.
Kevin Kaspar: This is the end of the problem statement side of this, you guys have any questions about the pieces. So I think, and I'm sure a lot of women founders in the room can relate to this that there's a there that it's not just, I guess a lot of the reason why. It seems that gender bias and misogyny seems to be so stuck in BC. Is because of this sort of
Kevin Kaspar: ideology, like there's a certain masculinity tied to success. And so I guess my
Kevin Kaspar: sort of a question, but also an observation is, you know, going into Vc. Meetings. There's a certain pattern matching that happens. And they say, Well, you know I'm going to bet on the the winning horse, and that winning horse is, you know, going to be the one that stays up all night doesn't talk to their family. And even if studies have continually shown that a more holistic approach that, like women, tend to be overall, sustain more sustainable businesses.
Kevin Kaspar: I guess. How do you? How do you address this kind of psychology in a Vc meeting? Because it comes up over and over again. And that's where this bias happens because the Vc. Doesn't think oh, I'm not betting on this founder because they're a woman, they think. Oh, I'm not betting on this founder because they're not hard enough. They're not a man, you know.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm clearly not in a good position to speak
Kevin Kaspar: about. You know the the lives or the journeys of women or of minority founders, or anything else right? Like
Kevin Kaspar: pretty obvious.
Kevin Kaspar: The thing I'll say is that
Kevin Kaspar: when I was going through the journey the 1st time
Kevin Kaspar: I was convinced that Vcs. Weren't willing to bet on me because I had a pedigree of coming from Ibm
Kevin Kaspar: versus coming from.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, other startup year places.
Kevin Kaspar: I've known fellow redheads that are convinced that people don't like them because they have red hair.
Kevin Kaspar: I think it like I i
Kevin Kaspar: systemic bias is outside the scope of, like the stuff that I'm trying to address here. What I'll say is given the operating conditions
Kevin Kaspar: in which we have to operate right. I don't personally think this is like a male female thing. I've known plenty of female Vcs that have many of the same thought processes. They're subject to the same forces. And and they've got the same power law dynamics that they're trying to meet inside their portfolios and everything else.
Kevin Kaspar: So so the systemic stuff is a little bit outside of kind of what I'm gonna address.
Kevin Kaspar: What I'm gonna try and do is give you the best set of suggestions I can
Kevin Kaspar: around how to optimally operate. Given the environment that we operate.
Kevin Kaspar: I do hear from a lot of women founders
Kevin Kaspar: that they feel like a lot of the stuff that we're going to talk about, particularly
Kevin Kaspar: like
Kevin Kaspar: when when we get into like imposter syndrome and a bunch of that kind of stuff. I oftentimes hear from women that they feel like that speaks to them even more than men do. A lot of them are oftentimes surprised that, like a 6 foot 5 Everest, climbing white dude feels imposter syndrome all the time when I'm sitting in these meetings.
Kevin Kaspar: I do think that a lot of the feelings, and the stuff that happens is more universal, like, I think we have a lot more in common not to sound, too. But I think we have a lot more in common as founders than we really have differences. As we break down across all the different lines that like that, we might be able to break ourselves down.
Kevin Kaspar: One piece of irony would be Kevin O'leary Tweet, because 75% of the shark tank portfolio returns have been women founded businesses that they invest.
Kevin Kaspar: I didn't know that that's really interesting.
Kevin Kaspar: alright. So these are my suggestions. So this is where we get past the problem statement, the doom and gloom. Everything's terrible. And let's get into the things that I think ultimately can help us operate much better inside this environment.
Kevin Kaspar: The 1st one is, prepare yourself for at least an 8 year journey.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, this was not something I was thinking about when I was in tech starts. You think about 8 years. That's 2 presidential elections.
Kevin Kaspar: You know, that can be family dynamics, marriage. It can be kids.
Kevin Kaspar: It can be changes in our health situation. Like if you project where you are right now.
Kevin Kaspar: and you start the clock right now. And you say, where am I going to be in 8 years? Let's assume I'm going to keep operating. This business
Kevin Kaspar: being prepared for. How are you gonna run this race over 8 years
Kevin Kaspar: leads us to a different set of how we think about executing.
Kevin Kaspar: Then, if we think this is going to be a 1 or 2 year term.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright.
Kevin Kaspar: I think about this. All like, is anybody ever run a marathon?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. You ever run a like a a 5 k sprint?
Kevin Kaspar: No shorter race than a marathon?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I did a lot of middle distance, middle distance.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay. And and is, is your pace the same
Kevin Kaspar: at the middle distance, running as it is at the Marathon?
Kevin Kaspar: No, if you try to run the marathon at the pace that you ran your shorter race. What happens to you?
Kevin Kaspar: Right? You end up in the hospital like Erica did.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay. So here's the thing is, many of us go through tech starts. And then the time beyond tech starts
Kevin Kaspar: thinking about it like a middle day. Hey? I got a year or 2 of this. Funny
Kevin Kaspar: sorry. I know. I know I haven't been a great father. I know I haven't been a great husband.
Kevin Kaspar: I know I'm not seeing my friends. I know I'm not seeing my family. It's cool. This is just for a year. I just gotta get through tech starts
Kevin Kaspar: alright. Think of this not only as an 8 year journey, but as a treadmill with only one button, and that button is only up.
Kevin Kaspar: because, let me tell you.
Kevin Kaspar: techstars is hard.
Kevin Kaspar: It only gets worse for him.
Kevin Kaspar: and I tell my team that all the time it only gets harder
Kevin Kaspar: if you think it's easier once you raise your seed round.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, then, your expectations are even higher.
Kevin Kaspar: and once you raise the a round, and you got somebody putting 10 or 15 million bucks in you, and you've got more press, and you've got more hype, and you're on the cover of magazines and all that kind of stuff.
Kevin Kaspar: it only gets worse.
Kevin Kaspar: so prepare yourself for an 8 year journey on a treadmill that's only got one button, and that button is up
Kevin Kaspar: alright, and it should influence how you think about running the race.
Kevin Kaspar: Does it get better at the exit, or I'm sorry. Does it get better at the exit or no good friend. Aaron Houghton has written a lot about this, so Aaron was like the real brains behind that contact. I take a little bit of credit. I was like the 3rd of 3. Amigos started that contact right, and Aaron ended up with with a much bigger check and exit.
Kevin Kaspar: And he had his mental breakdown. After he got that check I ended up in the darkest depression
Kevin Kaspar: after I sold simple relevance, even though I sold it for 0,
Kevin Kaspar: because at least when I was going through the journey I could blame all of my problems on. Well, I'm distressed because of my company.
Kevin Kaspar: So then what happened is, I sold my company, and Aaron saw there. There are all of these studies that show the same thing, which is that you go sell the company.
Kevin Kaspar: but you still got the anxiety. You still got the eye twitch. You still got all this other shit happening inside of you, and now you can't blame it. You can't put all the problems over here and say, this is why.
Kevin Kaspar: So then all of a sudden you got to look in the mirror and you got to say, Well, what the hell is really going on? And you got to go face those problems, and that becomes really existential. That for me was when the therapy got really deep
Kevin Kaspar: and and and it's why you gotta you gotta enjoy today
Kevin Kaspar: instead of hoping that like, if I just
Kevin Kaspar: if I can just suck it up tomorrow
Kevin Kaspar: I can enjoy myself tomorrow. I could be happy because that tomorrow never comes. You gotta figure out, how do you get comfortable in the journey today.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright, that's the point of that
Kevin Kaspar: building the team around them. So this was my team of doctors on Mount Everest, 3 doctors and a sherpa they told me I was the sickest
Kevin Kaspar: person to ever successfully summit Mount Everest, and I think they meant that physically, not mentally.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, my!
Kevin Kaspar: But imagine how much illness and how much terrible stuff the doctors see at Base Camp at 17,500 feet at Mount Everest.
Kevin Kaspar: and they told me I was the sickest one to ever make it to the top. I don't know if that was a compliment or an insult. I'm really not sure.
Kevin Kaspar: What did you have? Everything? Oh, I had.
Kevin Kaspar: I was coughing up all kinds of stuff that you don't want to know about. I had gi distress
Kevin Kaspar: that I was basically not processing nutrients. I thought it was. They were giving me Antiparasitics.
Kevin Kaspar: They were giving me all kinds of stuff. I think it ended up being a gluten thing, believe it or not, but like there's tons of gluten in all the like, all the stuff that they give you, and I didn't realize I had a gluten intolerance. So what I thought was a parasite and all kinds of other stuff ended up being that
Kevin Kaspar: I had a herniated disc.
Kevin Kaspar: and so I was like struggling to walk.
Kevin Kaspar: That was in really bad shape.
Kevin Kaspar: and I can tell you there's no way I make it up and down, live absent a team around me that was helping me. Yeah, yeah, I've heard. I don't know if this is true. You can't actually train your body for the altitude
Kevin Kaspar: sickness you can get used to it, pushing it. That's what the training is for. But your body reacts differently every time at that altitude, and it's really
Kevin Kaspar: like how much you handle. I would say you can train, but the the value of that training is variable. That's exactly right.
Kevin Kaspar: could actually.
Kevin Kaspar: if you want afterwards, I can tell you about. I just got done appointment, Whitney a couple of days ago, and like I couldn't get my body out of heart rate. Zone one
Kevin Kaspar: because I started coughing. I've got a little bit of like a cold thing. I've been fighting for a month, and I think I'm finally on the other side of. But like, when I was trying to climb the mountain at the altitude, basically bonked me, no matter what my, really the condition was. So yeah, there's 3 to that.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, no
Kevin Kaspar: mountain climbing aside, and I'll tell mountain climbing stories all day. If you guys let me. So you gotta like bring me back to the entrepreneurship world.
Kevin Kaspar: for me. Now
Kevin Kaspar: for this team. Right?
Kevin Kaspar: It's my wife
Kevin Kaspar: who who keeps me honest and keeps me grounded. And I talked to her very specifically about what I'm going through, and she helps keep me much better in line.
Kevin Kaspar: It's my therapist that I'm a little bit of a hypocrite, because I haven't talked to her in a couple of months, but I used to talk to her every week, and I need to get back to talking to her every week. It's my co-founder.
Kevin Kaspar: It's the guys on my executive team. My Vp. Of sales walked out the other day and goes, man, are you just in a terrible mood? You just seem really angry at everybody
Kevin Kaspar: I was like, no, I'm not.
Kevin Kaspar: This is clearly like I'm feeling the pressure of of some of the challenges that we're having. And so, all right, I need to recalibrate like how am I feeling, and how am I showing up to everybody? Right? And and so
Kevin Kaspar: I tried very hard now to have a team around me to keep me honest and to help me with somebody we were talking about. It's really hard to calibrate where you are in the journey. It's really hard for me myself to know how I'm feeling, and how am I showing up in many ways I need those external points of information to help me calibrate so that I can figure out where I need to intervene. What do I need to do? Do I need to take a day off? Do I need to do something different.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: celebrate every win.
Kevin Kaspar: I start, every executive meeting that we have, that I have with my team. I start with, what are the celebrations?
Kevin Kaspar: What are we excited about?
Kevin Kaspar: What did? What did we get right?
Kevin Kaspar: We got a lot of time to talk about everything that's going wrong, and we're going to talk about everything that's going wrong. And we're going to face those problems squarely. And we're going to address them. But before we do that. Let's stop and let's celebrate. What did we do right? What did we win today?
Kevin Kaspar: What went well.
Kevin Kaspar: but went well this week?
Kevin Kaspar: The other thing that I try really hard to do whenever we can
Kevin Kaspar: is to celebrate a win. What's the temptation? Once once we land a big customer.
Kevin Kaspar: right? So wait. I got this $100,000 deal done awesome. They sign. What's my temptation to immediately do?
Kevin Kaspar: Okay? You were. Gonna say something. No, okay. I was hoping you were
Kevin Kaspar: anybody. What's the temptation beyond that? How the fuck are we gonna deliver it?
Kevin Kaspar: What are all the problems we're gonna have?
Kevin Kaspar: Right? We've been fighting for 3 months to win this deal. Great! We want to know. Shit. Well, how are we gonna handle this, how we're gonna handle this, how we're gonna handle this, how are we gonna handle this right? And we don't give ourselves space
Kevin Kaspar: to actually stop and go shit.
Kevin Kaspar: Let's just take today
Kevin Kaspar: and let's be really excited about it. Tomorrow we'll schedule the meeting and we'll deal with all the problems that we're gonna have.
Kevin Kaspar: But today.
Kevin Kaspar: let's just stop and let's enjoy the moment that we're in.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: And it goes back to this idea. We touched on a couple of times, is
Kevin Kaspar: pull in your gaze and take things one day at a time.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright!
Kevin Kaspar: This picture is from Camp 3 on the face going up. That's the top of Mount Everest right there. I took this picture in about 22,000 feet, and when I took it, the reason that I took it is, I was convinced this is the highest I was ever going to be.
Kevin Kaspar: I was never! I was quitting the next day, and I was going home.
Kevin Kaspar: I was on my satellite thing with my wife, saying, hey? Can you help me get a plane ride out of Kathmandu? I'm done. I can't do this. I can't climb this mountain.
Kevin Kaspar: It's too big. It's impossible.
Kevin Kaspar: I had a really bad day that day. I can tell you guys all about it. And and this was my realization that the mountain had me beat.
Kevin Kaspar: I literally remember thinking I can live a very good life below 22,000 feet. That's fine. I can be very happy below 22,000 feet and the size I'm ever going to be. I can't do more than that. I've at least on my limits. I'm done. It's it's over. I can't do this right.
Kevin Kaspar: hey, Eric?
Kevin Kaspar: By the way, I feel that way all the time. Running bloom filter. Now.
Kevin Kaspar: if I lay out all of the problems that I have from here to where I want to be.
Kevin Kaspar: It's like looking at the top of that mountain. It's just impossible to find like when you're at the bottom of Everest, and you look up at the top of it. It's impossible. There is no way to find it.
Kevin Kaspar: The only way that I'm able to operate in these circumstances.
Kevin Kaspar: I gotta have a map for how I'm gonna get there. So I gotta have like a little bit of like long term vision setting. But then I've got to constrain my gaze and my view. To what do I need to get done today? And how do I celebrate that?
Kevin Kaspar: Because if I let
Kevin Kaspar: the whole path up to the top of that.
Kevin Kaspar: if I if I zoom when I zoom all the way out
Kevin Kaspar: well, that's what I get the eye twitch.
Kevin Kaspar: That's when I lose the ability to sleep. That's when I wake up in the middle of the night. That's when I lose the ability to eat. That's when I want to throw up.
Kevin Kaspar: because that's too fucking hard. I can't get there.
Kevin Kaspar: What I can do is I can. I can move one day I can get done the work that I need to get done today, and the service of eventually making it up.
Kevin Kaspar: Does that make sense.
Kevin Kaspar: So so, going back to that like like, what do you do when you start to feel that overwhelm? There's a lot of these different things that I do a lot.
Kevin Kaspar: The the one that I do all the time is stop trying to solve the next 6 months worth of problems in the next hour.
Kevin Kaspar: and when I wake up at 3 o'clock in the morning, worried about this problem that I'm gonna have in 3 months.
Kevin Kaspar: I try to remind myself all the time. I don't need to solve a 3 month problem in the next hour.
Kevin Kaspar: I can do that later.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: do you put a plan in place to tackle it in the next 2 months. If you feel better or like just saying like I can do that later. That makes me feel like more anxious. What if I forget or like?
Kevin Kaspar: Because your body, your your brain, just won't let you.
Kevin Kaspar: So you just say, I don't need to solve it right now. Yeah. So sometimes. So sometimes it may be
Kevin Kaspar: It's all situational dependence, some sometimes sometimes for me.
Kevin Kaspar: And this is why, like no one routine works for me. It's like different things. Hit me different ways in in at different times. So sometimes it's like writing it down and saying, Okay, here's a problem that we're going to need to solve.
Kevin Kaspar: sometimes, it's, you know, getting out of bed and like spending 10 min on it. Sometimes it's thinking through what happens if I don't solve this problem right now, am I gonna be okay? Yeah, okay. I'm gonna be okay. Now, I can go back to sleep.
Kevin Kaspar: But but it all starts with recognizing the the
Kevin Kaspar: but like, if you let if you let your mind zoom all the way out, it's always gonna be impossible. It's always gonna be overwhelming like that's just the reality. It's the nature of the beast.
Kevin Kaspar: And and
Kevin Kaspar: you know, I think the Kevin O'leary Ben Horowitz school of thought on this
Kevin Kaspar: is like, Oh, great, that pops up now I need to hustle harder. I need to do more faster. I need to sit down. I need to solve all that.
Kevin Kaspar: But then the the like. Eric, you know, thought on this is well, there's a lot of these things that we just need to start to figure out, how do we train our mind in whatever way works for you to say? Maybe it's writing it down. Maybe it's documenting it. Maybe it's something else. But to say, this isn't the problem that I need to solve today. And so I'm going to learn the mental skill. Because a lot of these things are mental skills that we learn to say, I'm going to figure out how I'm going to solve that problem
Kevin Kaspar: that makes sense. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: and in that.
Kevin Kaspar: in that spirit, I can tell you. When I was an entrepreneur, when I was the 1st time I went to tech starts
Kevin Kaspar: for me.
Kevin Kaspar: My rest and recovery
Kevin Kaspar: was when I went on long, like 150 mile an hour, 150 mile bike rides all right on like Saturday. That was like the one thing Troy will let me do, because he liked Bike riding so he would let me go ride my bike, at least for a little while.
Kevin Kaspar: I had completely lost the ability to sit quietly, have any stillness in my life.
Kevin Kaspar: I had lost the mental muscle
Kevin Kaspar: to rest and recover. As I was going through the journey
Kevin Kaspar: I could at least go exercise, and I didn't have my phone.
Kevin Kaspar: But like, if you ask me to sit on a couch
Kevin Kaspar: quietly, and just listen.
Kevin Kaspar: That was impossible for me.
Kevin Kaspar: Rest, recovery, silence, stillness.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, if you get into Buddha like yen without yang like that part of the balance of the equation. I had lost
Kevin Kaspar: the mental muscle. I just couldn't do it.
Kevin Kaspar: Meditation.
Kevin Kaspar: You can go through a variety of different activities.
Kevin Kaspar: Sorry, not activities. You can go through variety of different states
Kevin Kaspar: that were not active, and I couldn't find that place in me.
Kevin Kaspar: I didn't have rest and recovery.
Kevin Kaspar: I was real good to do more faster.
Kevin Kaspar: man. I was the fucking best at. Do more, faster.
Kevin Kaspar: sit quiet, rest, and recover was impossible for me. All right. You guys know how many hours a week Olympic athletes train on average
Kevin Kaspar: about 40.
Kevin Kaspar: And you guys work 40 h weeks.
Kevin Kaspar: Sounds like bankers. Hours
Kevin Kaspar: right?
Kevin Kaspar: Olympic athletes do not train 40 HA week because they are lazy.
Kevin Kaspar: Anybody think Olympic athletes are lazy, and that's why they like. If they train 50 h they'd be way better right? They have plenty of drop. Why do they work 40 h weeks?
Kevin Kaspar: Because the rest and recovery is absolutely essential to performance.
Kevin Kaspar: Why do airline pilots? Why are they required to get 8 h of rest before they go flying?
Kevin Kaspar: Because rest and recovery is absolutely essential to optimal performance.
Kevin Kaspar: I could keep going through these. If you want, I got a million examples, rest and recovery is absolutely essential to optimal performance. Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: that rest and recovery that I got at Camp 4
Kevin Kaspar: was the thing that is, I was going up the Hillary step when I needed that last burst of energy. There was the rest and recovery that allowed me to get there when I was finding the mountain. This was one of my key takeaways where I realized, oh, shit! The advice you give entrepreneurs is terrible
Kevin Kaspar: is my whole way up the mountain. All I want to do was climb faster. I wanted to hustle hard. I wanted to do more faster. I wanted to go. Go, go, go, go!
Kevin Kaspar: My guidance.
Kevin Kaspar: that's telling me. Slow down.
Kevin Kaspar: climb slower.
Kevin Kaspar: take a few more hours and rest
Kevin Kaspar: be more efficient in your movements. Now. They didn't do that because my Everest guys were lazy
Kevin Kaspar: and they didn't really do it because they cared about my like. Well, being all that much, they didn't really give a shit.
Kevin Kaspar: They did it because it was the optimal way for me to maximize my odds to get to the top of the mountain
Kevin Kaspar: that make sense
Kevin Kaspar: for all of us. We're in the same boat.
Kevin Kaspar: I find myself sometimes
Kevin Kaspar: like at night, feeling like I just need to work.
Kevin Kaspar: And like I'm too burnt out. I'm too exhausted to actually be making progress. But I'm too stressed to actually put down my laptop and rest and recover.
Kevin Kaspar: And it's in those moments when I'm just burning cycles and burning energy and burning focus for no productive value whatsoever.
Kevin Kaspar: So I started to get really really good.
Kevin Kaspar: I I give myself like a hard cut off of about 8 pm.
Kevin Kaspar: And I say, I'm not gonna work past 8 unless there's something that if it's not done the next day it will. It will be so broken that it's gonna take twice as much energy for me to fix it.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: yes, I think it has the feeling of like
Kevin Kaspar: every hour I put into. It is an hour of value
Kevin Kaspar: that creates value.
Kevin Kaspar: Kind of realize.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, every you know, every hour. Just work one more hour.
Kevin Kaspar: Right? So so
Kevin Kaspar: the the mythical man month. The like. I use the Olympic athlete
Kevin Kaspar: thing for myself all the time.
Kevin Kaspar: and what I think a lot about is
Kevin Kaspar: is this hour that I'm putting in more value is the highest and best use of my time.
Kevin Kaspar: And am I going to be more efficient and more valuable if I put that hour in.
Kevin Kaspar: Then, if I use this hour for something else.
Kevin Kaspar: rest and recovery being an important one.
Kevin Kaspar: so that when I show up tomorrow I'm bringing my absolute best self
Kevin Kaspar: to the problems that I gotta go solve tomorrow. And there are times when, like, I've got a critical customer deliverable. And the answer is, yes, this is so fucking important. I just gotta get it done.
Kevin Kaspar: And look, I'm not about pulling it all night, or I'm not about like doing what I've got to do to get the work done when I've got to get it done. But 98% of the time.
Kevin Kaspar: if I'm even asking myself that question.
Kevin Kaspar: the better answer is, put the laptop down.
Kevin Kaspar: Go, do something else that allows me to rest and recover mentally, and then go get after it. The next step.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, just to add on to this, I think part of it happens about it. Dave is
Kevin Kaspar: you gotta choose a life in Northern
Kevin Kaspar: attitudes like you want to live, and and finding examples of
Kevin Kaspar: successful entrepreneurs.
Kevin Kaspar: live. The kind of life that you want to live is really helpful.
Kevin Kaspar: And there's examples on both ends, because the point you're making is a largely held belief
Kevin Kaspar: by a good number of successful entrepreneurs. Elon Musk. You had one slide. He talks about. You gotta work more hours. You gotta work 8,100 h every week. Otherwise you're not making progress. But then there's other entrepreneurs who I look up to even more.
Kevin Kaspar: And I know them personally.
Kevin Kaspar: and I know how they live, and they're working 40, 50 min.
Kevin Kaspar: and they're killing.
Kevin Kaspar: And I'm like I studied them. Because I'm like, Okay, how do you do? How does this work?
Kevin Kaspar: And
Kevin Kaspar: I don't have as strong of an opinion about what's great.
Kevin Kaspar: But I do have an opinion about you, educating yourself enough to know what's right for you.
Kevin Kaspar: So choose what I can live.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I I do also think our I think Elon Musk is just different. He could probably operate at some degree of efficacy that eludes me.
Kevin Kaspar: and that's the thing we're all different. We've all got different minds. We've all got different bodies. We all got different pressures. We've got different stresses right? And, by the way, you never cross the same river twice, you know, General, never cross the same river twice. It's not the same river. You're at the same general, so we all go through different phases the way the way I live my life right now with 2 kids, and being married and a 3 year old and a 5 year old, is very different than the way I lived it 10 years ago. That's exactly what I was going to say.
Kevin Kaspar: So the examples of the people who are just overworking. How's family. How's home? How's their health? They with your kids? Well, like, usually there's something going on.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. The only thing I'll say is, I'm very different and kind of weird in terms of like, if I'm choosing between my business and my kids, I'm choosing my fucking kids.
Kevin Kaspar: That doesn't mean I don't work hard, and it doesn't mean I don't ever tell my kids, hey? Sorry kids like I'm not home tonight because I got to work. That's fine. But those are trade-offs that I make intentionally and thoughtfully
Kevin Kaspar: but but you know, like like the the way that I do it now is very different from the way that I used to do it. And and at the end of the day, if you ask me when I'm you know, dying, and on my deathbed
Kevin Kaspar: will I like. There's a balance. There's a trade off to some extent. There's like an integration between these different activities. But, like at the end of the day. I am not willing to accept being a a father that I'm not proud of
Kevin Kaspar: in the service of of of building bloomfilter.
Kevin Kaspar: Eric, if you're willing to
Kevin Kaspar: It might be too personal, but I think a lot of people might feel like oh, it's too far gone, because they already may be prioritizing the business over their spouse or other family members. I know you had. Your wife was like your fiance during the 1st right? So how did you like change the relationship to now her being like your number one priority when the business was coming 1st before like, is that something you had to?
Kevin Kaspar: So- so.
Kevin Kaspar: You know, nothing's really too personal at this point, like, I pretty much laid it all out there in the book. So so you know, everything's on the table. So in 2013, when I was going through the 1st time I was engaged
Kevin Kaspar: at a certain part during the journey.
Kevin Kaspar: and that engagement ended up breaking off, not because of the business.
Kevin Kaspar: Probably because we weren't right for each other now the business didn't help at all.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, my God! I can tell you that much like stressors, all of that other kind of stuff
Kevin Kaspar: when
Kevin Kaspar: when I got back in. So so when I decided to join bloom filter.
Kevin Kaspar: right of a couple of years, almost exactly 2 years ago. Now.
Kevin Kaspar: when I decided to join Bloomfilter.
Kevin Kaspar: I did it in the context of like, I'm gonna try and live all this stuff that I've talked about.
Kevin Kaspar: And I'm gonna go try and prove that I can build a successful company
Kevin Kaspar: integrated with being a great father, integrated with being a great husband, integrated with being a great friend, integrated with being a happy and joyful person.
Kevin Kaspar: Because, candidly speaking, I'm just in a position where, like I'm not willing, like, I assume this is going to be a minimum of 10 year journey for me. I'm 2 years into it.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm not willing to give up like I'm 42 man like in in 8 years.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm gonna be 50.
Kevin Kaspar: 50 is not dead. I can still do fun things at 50, but like I'm not going to give up my forties to be miserable and fucking. Hate my forties in the service of going and building bloom filter.
Kevin Kaspar: And so I just made the very conscious decision
Kevin Kaspar: with a whole bunch of different stakeholders.
Kevin Kaspar: But like I'm gonna go build this. I'm gonna do do my best to operate this business as best I can. But I'm gonna do it in the context of all of the other things that I need to do in my life.
Kevin Kaspar: and I'm not going to allow one thing to unhealthily dominate
Kevin Kaspar: the entire rest of my existence. And so blue filter is an important part of who I am.
Kevin Kaspar: I. I spend a lot of time. I spend a lot of energy. I spend a lot of focus. I give a lot to the business.
Kevin Kaspar: but I'm also not willing to give everything to the business, because I've got a whole bunch of other things that I need to integrate with.
Kevin Kaspar: That makes sense. Yeah. So what I'm hearing is like, it's not too late. And so if anyone feels like they want to implement the things that are in here like they could do it today. It doesn't mean you have to start over. Yeah, I mean the best time to plant a tree was 10 years ago, right? And the second best time is today.
Kevin Kaspar: And and yeah, I I mean, if if any of this stuff kind of starts to hit. And you're like, yeah, but I'm already in this pattern
Kevin Kaspar: of like doing things a different way. You know. The the reason I'm here is it's not doing. And again, in the spirit of like, this is a 10 year journey. You are probably way, way, way way closer to the beginning of this journey than you are to the end.
Kevin Kaspar: So if you already feel like you're like already, half committed to like a certain modality.
Kevin Kaspar: just just like break that pattern of thinking. It's just not true.
Kevin Kaspar: Harm reduction anytime that I talk about suicidality. I think it's really important. If any of you guys feel the feelings that I felt.
Kevin Kaspar: The the reason I say it was the second closest I came to dying is because there was a bunch of times that I felt like I was in a dark tunnel tunnel.
Kevin Kaspar: I couldn't figure out how to get myself out of the tunnel
Kevin Kaspar: failure was unimaginable to me. When I was running simple relevance.
Kevin Kaspar: I felt like, if I fail, not only would I lose people money.
Kevin Kaspar: but going back to the Ben Horowitz thing right? That would make me weak. It would make me contemptible. It would make me all the things that I hated it.
Kevin Kaspar: and I didn't want to be any of those things, and I couldn't figure out, how did I get out of that? How do I get out of that tunnel
Kevin Kaspar: in a way that doesn't let everybody down.
Kevin Kaspar: It put me in a very, very challenging spot personally.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh.
Kevin Kaspar: thankfully, I I never acted on any of those urges that I have. If you guys do start to feel any of that, I highly highly recommend. Talk to friends, talk to doctors, call 9 8 find ways to to get help because it's just absolutely no.
Kevin Kaspar: And to that point you're not your fucking job.
Kevin Kaspar: Your job's important.
Kevin Kaspar: the company you're building support. None of you guys are doing this because you don't think that what you're doing is important, meaningful. You don't want to make change in this world that is awesome.
Kevin Kaspar: I think it is a secret journey. It's 1 that I am back on with you, and I couldn't
Kevin Kaspar: b
Kevin Kaspar: more positive about entrepreneurship.
Kevin Kaspar: But it is not your personal.
Kevin Kaspar: And let me tell you.
Kevin Kaspar: as somebody who went through your shoes
Kevin Kaspar: was one of the 75% of entrepreneurs that failed to return capital to shareholders.
Kevin Kaspar: I failed.
Kevin Kaspar: shut the company down for 0,
Kevin Kaspar: ended up having to bk the company because I had a landlord that went nuts.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh.
Kevin Kaspar: and after all that.
Kevin Kaspar: and being in the darkest period I could possibly imagine in my life.
Kevin Kaspar: I ended up having a pretty damn good existence beyond that point.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: I did not do a good job of disaggregating my identity from my job. It was sort of forced upon me when my company failed. It took me
Kevin Kaspar: a long time and a lot of like existential work to finally figure out, how do I disaggregate those 2 things? How do I learn to say, Hi! My name is Eric Severing House without saying founder and CEO relevance like I just didn't know how to say like the 1st thing without the second thing, it had become so tightly intertwined in my existence. Right? That was an unhealthy dynamic.
Kevin Kaspar: It is perfectly fine for you to be a person who has a great day as a human, even if you have a bad day at work.
Kevin Kaspar: And that was something that I lost the ability to understand. I lost the ability to feel joy in the journey, particularly if we had a challenging day at the office. I felt guilty.
Kevin Kaspar: If I was having joy as a human
Kevin Kaspar: while having a bad day, as a CEO
Kevin Kaspar: and
Kevin Kaspar: cannot strongly, strongly, strongly recommend enough.
Kevin Kaspar: Keep a healthy separation between who you are as a fully formed human being, and the job that you have, which is just a part of your identity.
Kevin Kaspar: If you like any of these thoughts, there's a whole book of these kinds of topics. I do blog about it occasionally. Not very often. I write about it on Linkedin every once in a while, when the mood strikes me so you're welcome to follow me on there, or connect me, or whatever
Kevin Kaspar: if you're interested in the book, and you don't want to buy it for any reason. No questions asked. Shoot me an email. I'm more than happy to send you a Pdf. In the manuscript as long as you don't tell my publisher they like it. When I sell books. I don't really care about selling books. I really just want to make an impact and make a change. And I want you guys to have a better 1st trip through the journey than I did.
Kevin Kaspar: Thank you, Eric.
Kevin Kaspar: Does anyone have any questions we could probably take a 2.
Kevin Kaspar: But I really like the Olympic athlete comparison. I think that's very useful, and I I guess
Kevin Kaspar: with that comes like a lot of discipline, right? Because I'm sure a lot of them say, Okay, I want to, you know, do 10 more hours with their discipline. Have you found any good
Kevin Kaspar: like tricks or tips to implement that kind of discipline when it comes to self care and rest.
Kevin Kaspar: For me.
Kevin Kaspar: It has been a series of trial and error.
Kevin Kaspar: And and for me it is a realization that if I
Kevin Kaspar: so like, I have this weird thing that that has now become.
Kevin Kaspar: If I stop working at 8, and I watch an hour of TV.
Kevin Kaspar: People say, Don't watch TV before bed.
Kevin Kaspar: For me. It works.
Kevin Kaspar: I stop working at 8. I watch an hour of TV before bed at 9,
Kevin Kaspar: and then I like get to bed at 9, 30, or 10.
Kevin Kaspar: I can usually get a really good night sleep.
Kevin Kaspar: Usually occasionally. I don't. But like a 90% of the time I get a good answer.
Kevin Kaspar: for whatever reason for me.
Kevin Kaspar: if I work till 9 or 9 30,
Kevin Kaspar: and then try to put down the laptop and go to bed.
Kevin Kaspar: It is almost like clockwork that I'm going to wake up at 3 o'clock in the morning, and my brain is going to be spinning on whatever thing it was. I was working at 9 30 right before I went to bed
Kevin Kaspar: alright.
Kevin Kaspar: and and so for me, I've kind of adopted this little ritual
Kevin Kaspar: of like stopping anything
Kevin Kaspar: now.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm not always perfect on it.
Kevin Kaspar: but like I try really, really hard. And the reason what what I really try
Kevin Kaspar: if I'm going to go past 8 or 8 30, what I really try is I try to stop, and I think is what I'm doing. So important.
Kevin Kaspar: It needs to be done right now
Kevin Kaspar: that I can't take the hour that I know I need to decompress
Kevin Kaspar: to then get the rest and recovery that I need to show up with my a game tomorrow, because I know that I'm less effective on 4 or 5 or 6 h sleep than I am on 8 h sleep.
Kevin Kaspar: and so
Kevin Kaspar: for me, it becomes like a rational intellectual cost, benefit exercise of like. All right, let's stop. Let's checkpoint.
Kevin Kaspar: Is it worth putting in the more recognizing the risk that I'm then going to be less?
Kevin Kaspar: And and if I frame it for myself.
Kevin Kaspar: not in terms of like am I gonna feel happy tomorrow, but in terms of like am I going to intellectually bring my a game to my, the stuff I have to do tomorrow.
Kevin Kaspar: and and it becomes the rational cost benefit. It's like, it's like, are you a baseball fan at all.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. So in baseball, I'm gonna use my baseball analogy here in baseball. They pulled a starting pitcher
Kevin Kaspar: after they pitch usually like 80 or 90 pitches, and the starting pitcher is always mad about it, because they always want to pitch longer. All right, and the reason that they pull them most of the time is because the research shows that once you get above 80 or 90 pitches you're more likely to blow your arm out, and you're more likely to get hurt. So it's not a function of the pitcher being lazy. It's not a function of the pitcher not training enough. It's not a
Kevin Kaspar: function of the pitcher not wanting to win, and sometimes in a playoff game you let the picture go to 120 pitches, and you say, fuck it, we got to win that game so like every once in a while you do that, but you only do it really, really rationally when the benefit of the added risk is outweighed against the cost. Does that make sense? And so when I frame it for myself that way.
Kevin Kaspar: then it gives me a permission structure to say I'm going to stop working, not because I'm lazy, not because I'm not committed, not because I don't care about my company, but because performing optimally, tomorrow is more important than this extra hour of work that I'm going to get in tonight.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: So so for me, it's about the permission structure. And then once I've got the permission structure and I've got the analytical framework, the behaviors kind of follow from it.
Kevin Kaspar: That's a good question.
Kevin Kaspar: So if if anyone else has questions you can save them for the founder story that we'll have in 90 min. I'll post on Base Camp, where it's going to be. It's probably not going to be in this room. But let's.